okay it's recording
welcome to GUI and in web browsers
bi-weekly call for the last of June 2020
yep we got regular folks we got new old
folk
so it's interesting week
oli is our note-taker and I've put some
items on the agenda and I will quickly
jump straight to that feel free to add
your own agenda items while I am
struggling to share my screen hopefully
this works
does anybody figured out a way to not
have a zoom go into full-screen mode
when someone shares their screen that's
so annoying yeah I think you can turn
that off I turned it off ages ago
because it's so annoying it's for
everything but you've achieved it so if
I look for it okay I'm not in full
screen right now it's possible I can all
right so it's the end and the beginning
of the quarter and we are now a working
group so as each working group we
prepared some okie RS which are
objectives and key results we have
limited bandwidth and some cross working
group priorities which we had to include
in our planning so there are two main
topics for Q free one is integrating
pinning services into both our web
ecosystem and our GUI graphical
interfaces namely IKEA fest desktop and
web UI and then even though we are in a
new working group again
we had a lot of ongoing collabs and
grants and work that needs to continue
and that's a result of prioritization so
getting services will be something that
we will add to our ecosystem in q3 and
this working group will focus on
implementing user interfaces and helping
to orchestrate entire API spec to be
finalized and agreed across all
stakeholders and those stakeholders will
be not just pinning services themselves
but our core implementations so if you
go to core implementation x' ok RS you
see they also have pinning services on
the list so that will be partially
joint-venture partially we will provide
lists of requirements and quality
assurance but the end result is having
pinning services in web UI and ipfs
desktop integrated and working with at
least to collapse depending how our
partners timelines we will have two or
more pinning services ready to be used
by our users but everyone will be
capable of implementing the vendor
agnostic pinning service api so we
expect that system growing and there
will be always option to add your custom
pinning service so even though it's not
like listed on those on the list of
default a pinning services you will
always be able to specify your own and
we as a part of that work we've
extracted a bunch of iroquois expertise
on web performance and low level
optimizations so it's under maintaining
and improving as bandwidth permits we
I will ship those libraries for sharing
IP first note across browsing context
however from that work we've extracted
p0 to improve import of huge files using
web UI that will be useful because
people want to use pinning services they
should be able to import huge files into
their local nodes and the second PR p0
apart from pinning services is break
integration brief will implement
embedded they will implement our native
your eyes and the dose will be backed
either by public gateway or user will
have an option to opt into running
embedded J's embedded go ipfs node so
that's really exciting development in
this quarter and will be mostly
providing a user support bar if there is
anything blocking them security wise or
if there's like a feature missing from
go ipfs we will have to block some time
to help that collaboration
everything else is on the best effort
basis we may prioritize things related
to a long backlog of UX related issues
namely because it's sort of related to
supporting falcon lounge and pinning
services as well our GUI applications
are often the first thing that people
see when they Google ipfs and they want
to try it so even though it's it might
not sound very it may sound vague but
it's very important to remove low-level
hanging fruits all the paper cards in
the onboarding of new users we expect an
influx of various types of new users
relate
in flux people will be related to
integration of being services but also
ficon large so that's something we'll
probably prioritize here it's a p2 right
now but we'll increase it for everything
else there are links to very detailed
issues on this column I'll probably stop
talking now
if I missed anything Jessica feel free
to elaborate you might as well might as
well put the link in that issue triage
to ours and hub board because then folks
can can look through that and then the
other note on that being like so super
vague is a lot of this is really just
gonna base on triaging the highest
priority things in that backlog with the
caveat on who is available skill set
wise to be able to do that work so you
know it may not be a complete priority
order it's just based on a combination
of priorities and availability of skills
you
yeah that's a good idea I've had that
link to then cut board it's not a link
but I will make it a link at some point
when I figure it out Google Docs yeah so
that's our cue ours
those are like not 100% finalized but
that's the general direction in services
p0 break integration p0 and then sharing
nodes across browser context and the
backlog will be around p1 if speaking of
meaning services so the next item is
pinning services API spec it's something
that I kicked off quite recently
so for web UI to integrate pinning
services into our interview user
interfaces we need to agree on how that
pinning will happen that's something
between us and go ipfs and jess ipfs
however the backend API should be vendor
agnostic so that final api where you
send the ID of the items you want to pin
it right now each pinning service
provide their own API but we want to
agree on a universal pinning service API
that's every browser every pinning
service provider implements and that way
we just implement client for that in
what do I mean go ideas Joseph EFS make
it available from our command line HTTP
API so there's a repo for that work
pinning service API spec is very it's a
very early draft which the current
version is just imported Yunel from
older discussion
from Ikea first notes issue but we plan
to finalize this API within the next
weeks so the timeline is bit aggressive
however the API surface is not that big
it's effectively just a few endpoints
for I wanted to pin this Eid and I want
to check status of this ad and then what
is the status of my pins and that's more
or less it so we started discussion in
issues feel free to participate feel
free to ask questions the sooner the
better
we want this to the surface of this API
to be very very small and we don't want
to be too detailed when it comes to
access controls and we don't want to
force pinning services to implement too
much so it will be very very small
surface very small API that we all can
agree on and then that will be like a
the low-level primitive that will build
all the user interfaces all the
integrations in user interfaces so that
happens in parallel to our web UI work
but we are sort of blocked without this
we are not able to ship anything so
expect updates on that within two weeks
I'd say is the end user experience of
that essentially where people are your
desktop gets gets the drop-down that
says please use this is my preferred
preferred pinning back-end and glad you
asked Ali I sent you I sent you off
channel on p.m. cuz everybody else has
been through these um but we can also
walk through them ah do you you have
them handy Lytle oh no I'm just very
fast at typing it's like a cooking show
here's what we made earlier
so there's there's two flows that's one
is in the settings screen the other ones
of the file screen these were actually
iterated on and there were certain
degree in the pinning summit there
they're real straightforward though real
real straightforward I was I was like
super impressed I'm I'm running I'm
running figma desktop app so I don't
have those in my address bar but I mean
if you want to walk from real quick we
can yeah I have a thing it may be useful
to provide context yeah I actually I
shall have them open now I can share my
screen okay if you want all right let's
see here where are you all right um give
me a second sure it's great share screen
come on there we go okay I'll see that
yes oh cool all right so this would be
the settings where this lives in
settings as you see it's just another
pane in the settings explains a little
bit about pending services our since
this will be the first time that anybody
who doesn't know this exists will
encounter it this will be the first
point of contact so we want to give them
a little bit more explanation and then
also obviously a link in the docs that
flows out that a little bit harder
everybody is always gonna have local
pinning obviously let's say default and
then you can add more
so you add services it's pretty simple
this is sort of an initial state while
we've only got a few pending service
providers on this boat so it's a little
bit like a logo parade right now this is
sort of an initial state to say you hear
the first couple of collabs at some
point when we have a bazillion of these
that will change a little bit the the
actual look and feel of this logic it
might end up being a searchable list or
something like this um you've also got
the don't see your pending a service
provider add a custom one show you that
in a sec but real simple just here's the
service you can give it a nickname cuz
you might have say two and if your
accounts you might call it
zero-one and pura 2 or whatever work and
home or who even knows so you can give
it a nickname you give it your API key
and then this guy here this is sort of
dependent upon the functionality that we
launched with but in an ideal state
you'd have some auto upload parameters
right here that would give you I'll show
you those in a sec also an escapee to go
to the pending services website if they
want to offer more one-on-one help
specific to their service if you add a
custom one it's virtually the same thing
except that you need to give it an API
endpoint as well
this is what it looks like with a couple
of pinning services added notice so this
is this is an example of all the
permutations of the auto upload rules it
would either be and again this this may
or may not happen depending on your
pacing and what users want but this is
sort of a an ideal situation auto upload
would be all the files it might be none
of your files or it might just be things
that you pinned to your local node only
you can
edit a service if you hit the edit
button it goes back to the config modal
I just showed you you can visit the
Services website or you can remove it
removal and changes you can you can
change the rules if you go into the
config and you change from one set of
rules to the other but we have to be
very careful by the language that you
use here's an idea saying what if you
what if you went from everything to just
pins or the other way around so if
you've gone from nothing so say you went
from nothing to pins we want to ask you
alright do you want to do you want to
only pin things you only want to pin do
in Fira or textile things that you pin
in the future to your local node or do
you want to upload all of your local
pins so we want to ask them that so
there are a couple of sort of escape
escape confirmation get out Clause
questions them when you change a pinning
rule that will need to account for
here's another example going to all
files - do you want us to upload
everything now or just everything that
you add in the future yes so these are a
couple of these exceptions including if
you disable and then also to make it
super clear if you remove the painting
integration entirely from from your your
desktop or web UI you know we want to
say removing this pinning service isn't
going to take the files off that service
you just won't have that service in your
dashboard anymore I believe that's
probably that's probably good enough for
now oh and then just some status
confirmations the other half of this
which is currently blocked by the zoom
sharing thing at the top of my screen
let's try this okay cool
files screen
you've now got a pin status column here
that's going to tell you is it locally
pinned or is it locally and cloud pen
there may be circumstances under which
it is only cloud pin such as you
disabled an integration this is again
sort of an exceptional case but we're
allowing for that we talked about the
idea of having if it's possible a
learning animation while a file is being
pinned to a third party service if if we
do end up implementing some of those
manual pinning rules that I talked about
so you you can invoke any of the stuff
with the three dots the right-click menu
and this turns into a set painting
option rather than a pin and unpin
because it's it's a bit more granular of
a choice
ditto here for multiple select files and
forgive me I haven't seen use it a
little while I'm not talking through
these it's completely fluency so say sis
a both from either this multi select
scenario or right-click single select
scenario and you hit that set pinning
you get a modal that'll pop up that says
select the services with which you wish
to pin these files so say this person's
like a superpower user and they have six
pinning services including one that they
made themselves so you could have manual
or granularity over what you pin where
again this is really dependent you this
is sort of advanced functionalities made
it may not be MVP stuff if you don't
have that level of rules if it's just
manual pinning or if it's just automatic
pinning according to rules this is real
easy this just goes back to the pin on
Pinson REO and then
for visibility since you can't tell by
using that right-click menu and invoking
the custom pinning rules we need to let
somebody know which services it is pin
to so maybe you had like a global rule
and then you say I'm one service and you
have nothing on another so you might end
up with this is pin to your local node
and it's pin to pin Jana and textile but
it's not pin to a tournament in fira you
would learn that by clicking the pin
status in there in the the pin status
column and then again some confirmation
messages files can successfully or this
is this is gonna be sort of a very it's
it's a fairly vague error but it's gonna
account for a lot it's good because most
of the things that are going to go wrong
is there's something wrong with your
config maybe your API key changed but
ideally we would be querying on this
files page at some sort of rate double
checking pin status of all of these
files and if something's wrong you would
get an alert icon and a notification
clicking on that icon would take you
back to the settings page and that is
all I have a question yeah we're gonna
take into account you being offline by
chance or is it another error in the
sense say I'm not connected to the Wi-Fi
or that's I mean that's a good that's a
good question we we have not flushed
that out yet the question being whether
the standard you're not online messaging
that you get from the rest of desktop
and web UI is that going to be enough or
do we need to say something specific to
you hey we can't query these web
services to get to in fear or whoever
it's good I see more interesting is like
if we can't get there you probably want
to redo it once you go online good
question
be cognizant that those mock-ups were
created before we start a discussion
about scoping between well how much
stuff will happen in web UI and how much
stuff will
be done in going FS and now we've agreed
that the actual execution of the pinning
at the remote service will happen in go
ipfs so it's a very valid question that
you've asked what happens if like goid
EFS is not able to reach the remote
service I will expect maybe there will
be some flexible or cache of pending
ending actions but there will be also
the pin status column it will web UI
will ask go IDF s about the status and
there may be a status of like pending
where you you don't know if it's like
applied to remotely yet it's like a
super super effect right now we'll talk
with Jake and current limitations all
the details in the following weeks but
yeah there appear to be in enough
affordances right now be able to within
the existing design language tell the
user about this scenario I don't see
there may be anything like earth-shaking
here but yeah you're right it's it's
still an unanswered question
nothing remarks today or thought I had
was about the prompt where you see
upload all of them now upload just a pin
snow or it might be a little like some
of those decisions sometimes are hard to
make while serving a service so I was
wondering maybe in the file of cui we
could add a I know line or something
insert to say upload all the existing
pins or based on options that way you
don't have to make the decision right
away as you're adding a pinning service
and you have a monthly way to get all
the old stuff yeah yeah that's a good
idea I mean it would represent some
additional functionality but it will
also be that we it may be that we
actually don't need to implement all
those models for different decisions
because we may be constrained on the
Lego FS level some things may be too
complex to be like viable given our
tough time frame so we may simply be
saved from implementing that
and this is probably a good time yeah I
mean we're we're still a little bit
unsure time frame wise and functionality
rise exactly how granular if at all we
can get with that rulemaking it might
just be an everything or nothing right
out of the box but we are we are
answering oh and some of these are
mandatory questions but I just got the
OK to turn this survey loose today which
is also on the agenda but just talking
about hate giving a real answer I don't
live for my I can delete this one but
but we're talking about potential
pinning features so we are we are asking
how important is it to manually pin a
file whoops come back type form
automatically pin everything that's on
your local node automatically pin
everything that's in your local nodes em
FS customize manual or automatic pinning
rules on a per service basis use a
private service and you know would this
change your life also how important
would it you be for this functionality
to be available from the command line so
definitely we want to we want to get a
bead on people's opinion of these
functionalities and their importance in
general again this is probably going to
be more limited by the time frame that
we're dealing was I was just wondering
how it sounds like these are the
preliminary screen proposals they I
think they do a great job for what you
were you described it seen it does seem
like more functionality than we would
want for a first pass a lot of sorry
just just that like the level of
granularity is most radical but also
terrifying yeah
yeah this subtree is pinned to three of
five
services that subtree is pin to one of
five pinning services just to be able to
like render the status of each file like
doing call-outs to multiple pinning
services per file yeah I mean and this
is a lot of this is aspirational and
like Leto was saying the mock-ups which
started out as iterations from the
pinning summit were really can we can we
build ourselves a most complex case
scenario visually in the UI so that
we're not boxing ourselves into
something awful and have to rip out a
bunch of UI later when we add
functionality so just to just clarify on
on the complexity we have like a working
document where we try to identify
translate the changes from the front
from the web UI trying to translate that
to low-level
requirements in both web UI and Co ipfs
backend and we identified some scopes
where different stuff happens in a
different place and we've put a line in
the Sun here so effectively it may be
here where we only have the manual
pinning policy that out of my automatic
upload column that's where most of
unknowns are right now the survey that
Jessica a shirt will give us data to
know is it worthwhile for us to invest
time in basically implementing that
column for MVP it's not like we we won't
have that we may not have that in the
first version we may have something much
simpler where you only manually mark
file or directory' to be pinned to a
specific pinning service and that's it
and that would be already super useful
for MVP pinning everything in MF s may
be quite easy so that's why we've put a
line after that but it's the line on the
sand and we'll finalize the decision
after we got survey results yeah I
totally agree we given the time frame we
probably won't be able to implement all
the screens that Jessica shared but
that's that's something may be at some
point available it's not just yeah yeah
this is mainly just an effort to be able
to build in the affordances for future
functionality conceptually understanding
getting remote pending services in
desktop and web UI is like kind of a
stretch anyway and so to go and do that
and then I have to change the UI on
folks six months in would've just been
sad so I remember in the previous
conversations there were some issues
that we've been discussing about the
card interface and stuff and there was a
as I get we tend to ship something and
then we try to improve it is improvement
somewhere in the pipeline to and how the
process will look like if it is this
unclear to me given your smells I'm
guessing the answer yes so like the ping
services themselves in the current scope
I think it's safe to say that our actual
execution of remote pinning will happen
in go ideas so that's sort of like out
of the plight of this working group we
will implement what's even available to
us over HTTP api that is exposed bye-bye
go a PFS so that's more or less not at
this like the final decision or of
what's available it's not up to us we
will
effectively implement what's exposed in
the HTTP API and the final question
would be where those additional like
cleaning services are on the road map of
go ipfs sorry maybe I'll refrain my
question so my question would mean are
there opportunities to rethink the user
experience of this in the future and if
there is how that process looks like of
trying to improve it from the mock-ups
that we were given or or like is that
saying they're all is that kind of being
pipeline is it something that needs to
be I just just quickly that's I'd say we
are in better position now that we know
that goai DFS will be executing those
remote calls so we don't have we are not
like anchoring us or we are not
anchoring the user interface around the
code that we wrote in the user land
there would be a bit more generic api
exposing the HTTP api and that means it
will be easier if we decide to change
the user interface or the user
experiences it will be easier if we now
that we will have this generic API then
if we like tightly coupled everything in
web UI that just like my subjective
opinion Jessica yeah no that's very true
that said if you are proposing that we
rip out to a substantial degree what
we've already aligned upon we should
track those discussions while we're also
doing the development effort because I
think that they call with Molly we all
had some ideas how things could be
better and the feedback I got that well
we want to do something really quick and
then as a start-up we're gonna eat right
over it all right over so I'm trying to
understand how this iteration over is
happening innovation and and what I what
I'm trying to say
is that the basic the basic visual
framework as we have right now is is the
the very basics of that framework is
aligned upon if we want to do something
substantially different than that we
should be talking about that
now if we're talking about tweaks to
that basic framework then then we can
sort of continue iterating on that but
if it's kind of if what you're
suggesting is that we represent it in a
fundamentally different way we should be
talking about that now yeah it's hard to
tell what the middle I don't think there
was anything fundamental issues from
what I remember in the conversations
there were some tweaks yeah I mean if
we're talking about things like icon
design you know obviously that's that's
different than we're not gonna represent
things visually in a column or we we're
not going to use modal's for config
things like that so one of the examples
I can remember so one things that I
brought up during that conversation is
instead of showing the cloud with the P
in there and then clicking add robot it
to see that dialogue with all the things
that you've pinned we were I suggest
maybe we can have something like what
Google Docs is doing where at the top
you see kind of will I construct to see
who you shared the document with or who
was on the document so maybe we can have
something similar in terms of who's is
on whose piece pinging this file uh-huh
I think Dropbox does a similar yeah they
do the similar thing but again sharing
with people go ahead and open an issue
specifying what you'd like to have
mocked up and I'll mock that up for a
future discussion
cool
so that's cleaning surfaces Ollie of the
dancers the initial question thank you
yeah thanks an hour later continuing
improving file add directly yeah I'm
trying to find where oh yeah yes so I
proposed a meeting at the current
limitations or asked for the design
review meeting and I'll try to schedule
sometimes this week or actually
depending on people's availability
mostly there needs to be some decisions
made around how we go about it well one
option would be to do everything in the
browsers but that would mean we will be
doing more six or the other option would
be to slightly modify the HTTP API in
non backwards compatible way but that
would endure it was to just use Web API
rather than try to do the custom stuff
sudden problems few other things in the
meantime I started working on a patch
that assumes that we were not gonna be
doing the HTTP API changes but if you do
send it like that will be just
simplified so I'm working on a couple of
patches actually so the problem is ipfs
add functionality in Jess IPS does bunch
of normalizations and through those
normalization some of the car abilities
are lost so we end up buffering because
of that however there's also peculiarity
or I could have said where it takes
I think iterator reversing iterators
which creates this double I think loop
that is hard to kraid's and specialized
escape patches or hutches to avoid some
of the normalization so it's becoming
kinda like I have a patch for that but
it's huge and massive and I don't know
if it's helpful at all so I have another
implementation just
just just add without any of that sings
which is a lot simpler so I hope you
have by the meeting two versions and try
to guide towards can we have a simpler
one without necessarily integrating into
the ad and see how it goes
this kind of had been my ongoing
conversations because I find that some
of the api's are very generic to address
all kind of use cases but that also
harms us when we are trying to not do
all of those cases in browsers anything
else I think that's all for now so I
have a little trouble with web UI patch
right now if anyone's available later
can help would be helpful I for some
reason bundle arising he's not picking
out a dependency edit but if you are
available later that would help if not
I'm sure I can figure it out is it in a
PR or is it just like locally it's not a
PR yet no I want to get it to workers I
got like a world of meetings but maybe
like that after first PR really it's
okay to PR a thing that doesn't work you
just think it's a draft no one looks of
it okay this is a safe space you can
share its Intel it's super super mini I
don't know the trolls it's super
important workers our ping services work
is useless if it's painful to import
files to my PFS using a cube has desktop
and that's the golden path we want to
optimize yeah he and historically adding
files in web UI slash desktop is pretty
close for multiple reasons so if it's
good better
Raphael did significant improvements for
like drag and drop
which got broken overtime by electron
Ektron has this ability of breaking
stuff yeah knobs not we're not obliged
upgrade electron tray they broke tray on
Linux then they back away from that
changed so they broke it
once again when people implement it all
the workarounds yeah yeah like I'm
pretty skeptical this ability of
electron but difficult difficult
challenge they've set themselves yeah
yeah so directly pink me later or just
open the draft and pick me yeah I'll
open a drop I'm sure I can figure it out
it just was the last things I was
working on for some reason that there's
also like a ruffle he's back tomorrow
and he probably has fresher look at web
UI than I did yeah all right we're at
the end of our list if there's anything
else feel free to add I will quickly go
over our highlights I think I'm mature
probably mention it on other calls but
I'll just go quickly over them oh gosh
this zoom sharing thing right so Raphael
released web UI 2.10 and it had a
significant improvements for
accessibility he effectively I hope that
this beer and he rewrote every
interactive component in web UI like
every link and button so when you are
using screen reader if you are like
visually impaired or something you can
just tab the screen now in this starting
from this version and you will get a
pretty good user experience
Raphel also like streamed this on Twitch
which is interesting tidbit of
information so if
really cool to see how he struggled to
write entire user interface and if I did
not tell you this you probably would not
notice because he did such a good job of
making everything look the same so he
spent a lot of time on improving
experience of people with various
disabilities but it should not impact
the regular workflow and a bunch of
other stuff we kind of stabilized end to
end test a little bit and there was
additional partial ease where a small
artifact in electron was fixed and we
have companion release which now lets
you obtain into the latest web UI so
instead of using the hard-coded CID that
ships with Co ipfs or JSP files of your
choice you now are able to obtain into a
version at web UI that idea of SEO which
is it's not the latest comet from master
it's the latest release as far as I know
so it should be fairly safe to opt in
but we we made it opt-in we want people
to use the version that was tested with
the node by default and there is Arabic
locale in case there are people speaking
and reading Arabic and you find anything
dodgy or will Tina be of his companion
please reach out fill the initial
inactive his companion report is the
first language that's from right to left
not from left to right so we probably
did not account for that in our user
interfaces so if anything looks wonky
please those are short updates and I
think we are at the end of the meeting
so folks unless there's any last-second
topic I'll free up eight minutes of our
time and finish sooner well I do fire
we're usually meet now do we still want
to again if not we couldn't I can chat
with Olli and bring them up to speed on
some of the UI stuff oh yeah okay if all
if you've got time cool for sure so I'm
ending the call thank you so much I
actually I have one thing yeah good can
I do it off the record though okay
[Laughter]